## More about me from these prompts

> Tell me about a time you set a hard goal and followed through on it. What was the result?

A few years ago during my time as an Undergraduate Data Science Researcher in The Data Mine, I made it a personal goal to look for a ways to increase our work efficiency by getting more reliable data for us to work with. Our team had to work with big data that was unreliable and had large gaps of missing data in it and this was reducing our workflow as we had to spend time imputing that missing data and repairing bad data in a way that won't interfere with our research. I took it upon myself to see if I can find a better solution to this, so I would ask classmates and professors that have experience in data science on how they would go about it and I found the more consistent answer would be to go straight to the source of where our data is coming from and see if I could get a hold of better data. After talking to cooporate sponsors supervisor for our project I was able to get in contact with those who collect their data within the company and ask for assistence. Thankfully they did have the solution we needed as unreliable data we had was able to be replaced with better ones and for large gaps in timeframes we were able to get hold of those missing data and fill in those gaps. After this our effeciently instantly increased dramatically and were able to produce better than expected results at the end of our research project. After this I learned to always look to see if I can find better solutions and always ask for help since it can make a dramatic difference for myself and my team.